Hi there! Welcome to
this video. Today we
will learn how to
protect your personal
data online. Personal
data does not
disappear on its own.
You can take steps to
stay safe and stay in
control. The goal of
this video is to show
simple ways to
protect your privacy.
We will look at
privacy settings, app
permissions, safe
sharing habits, and
deleting old
information. These
small actions can
make a big difference
. Protecting personal
data means
controlling who can
see it and how it is
used. When you use
apps and websites,
they may collect and
store information
about you. Privacy
tools help you choose
what is shared and
what is not. Many
apps have privacy
settings like public,
friends, or only me.
Public means many
people can see it.
Choosing only friends
can reduce who sees
your posts and
information. Before
posting a photo,
check the background.
Could it show your
school name, a street
sign, or your house
number? Even if your
face is not shown,
background details
can still reveal
private information.
Using a nickname
instead of a full
name can help protect
privacy. Try not to
share your address,
phone number, or
school name in public
spaces. If a website
asks for information
that feels
unnecessary, stop and
ask a trusted adult.
Apps sometimes ask
for permissions like
access to your camera
, microphone, photos,
or location.
Permissions should
match what the app
needs. If a simple
game asks for
location, that could
be a warning sign.
Logging out helps
protect your accounts
, especially on
shared devices.
Locking your device
with a passcode keeps
other people from
opening your apps and
messages. These are
simple steps that
protect your personal
data every day. Old
accounts and old
posts can keep your
data online longer
than you expect. If
you no longer use an
app, deleting the
account can reduce
stored data. If you
posted something by
mistake, deleting it
quickly can limit who
sees it. If something
feels strange or
unsafe, report it and
ask for help. You can
tell a trusted adult,
a teacher, or a
parent. Getting help
quickly is a smart
way to protect your
data and your safety.
One helpful habit is
to use a clean-up
checklist. For
example, check
privacy settings,
review permissions,
delete old apps, and
log out. Doing a
small clean-up
regularly keeps your
digital footprint
smaller. In class,
you will practice
this with a Fix This
Profile activity. You
will look at a
profile and find what
should be changed or
hidden. This helps
you notice risky
details and choose
safer settings.
Let's recap.
Protecting personal
data means sharing
carefully, using
privacy settings, and
checking permissions.
Log out, delete what
you do not need, and
ask a trusted adult
when unsure. You have
the power to control
your data and protect
your privacy. Great
work! In this video,
you learned practical
ways to protect your
personal data online.
Next, use these tips
in your classroom
activities and at
home with a trusted
adult. Thank you for
watching!